Thank you for coming to our session.
My name is John Montbriand.
I work in
Apple Developer Technical Support.
Part of what I do is I take care of the
sample code collections and the technical
note and technical Q&A collections.
And of course, doing that,
I have plenty of opportunity
to work with web servers and
prototyping stuff on the web.
And that's what I'm here
to talk to you about today.
So first of all,
let's set the context for what
we're talking about here today.
We're talking about building
your website on Mac OS X.
So what does that mean?
A website has many components,
and you look at your website
through web browsers.
So we're going to talk in this
talk about all the different
components of a website.
And... Sorry.
We're going to talk about all
the parts that make up a website,
which include server software,
scripting languages, HTTP software,
and databases.
Now, when you're developing a website,
what are the things that you do?
The first thing that you do is,
of course, you upload it to a server,
and then you look at the
website with your browser.
Now, that whole activity,
there's only one thing that
takes a lot of time there,
and that's the network.
Because you have to make
your pages on your machine,
upload them to a server,
and then view them with your browser.
So the feedback loop
you have going on there,
it's really slow,
and it can take a lot of time to develop
the website that you're working on.
So what I'm going to talk to you
about today is putting this all
onto one computer and getting
your computer configured so
you can preview your website,
and you can edit your website.
So you have a really close feedback loop
when you're working on your website.
And going through that,
we're going to talk about
the server software,
setting up that to bend HTTP pages.
Of course, on your machine,
you have Apache built in,
and I'm going to show you how to
configure that to do things like
PHP and server-side includes,
and it's very easy to do.
The next thing I'm going to
talk about is database software,
where you can get that,
how you can download it and install it.
There's some really easy-to-install
packages available on the
Internet that you can use.
And we'll be showing you where to
get those and how to install them.
The next thing we're going to
talk about is scripting languages.
There's a whole bunch of
really good scripting languages
installed on Mac OS X.
You can extend those languages,
you can add packages,
and you can install extra ones as well,
and we'll be showing
you where to get those.
Then I have two special guests coming
in to talk to you about server-side
Java and how you can install that on your
machine and do your prototyping locally.
Now, of course,
I should point out that none of
this requires Mac OS X server.
You can do all of this with your client.
You can do all of this with
your client version of Mac OS X.
All the things that
I'm showing here today,
you can do these on Panther, Jaguar,
and I think all the way back to 10.0,
as far as I know.
So let's start talking
about HTTP server software.
We have Apache installed on Mac OS X,
and of course, on Mac OS X server,
it's also installed.
It's installed with a few more
options already set up for you,
and of course,
there's some really nice configuration
software available on X server.
But we're not talking about that today.
We're just talking about the client
version and how you can turn that on.
Now, basically,
if you want to turn on Apache,
all you do is you go into the server
settings or the sharing settings,
and you turn it on using a checkbox.
And for those of you who are
more savvy on the command line,
you can use that to turn it on
and off using the Apache control
statement shown there.
Now, I'm going to show today how to
set up three different websites.
The first two are going to be
in your sites folder inside
of your home directory.
And the first site I'm going to show,
I'm going to show how to set this up.
This is the basic kind of
layout of how we access these.
We're going to show how to access
websites through your local
host address and then through
URLs with the tilde username.
And then I'm going to call one folder
site one and one folder site two.
And we access all this through the
user configure or through the local
host URL with the tilde username.
So the first thing we need to keep
in mind is all the configuration
globally on your system is stored
in the HTTP configuration file.
And I'm going to show you how
to set that up to turn on PHP.
But we don't actually have to
do anything to that file beyond
turning on different options.
You can turn on PHP.
You can turn on Mod Perl if you want.
And those things are all there.
And you just need to turn them on.
So I'll show you how to do that.
Now, for each one of the
sites we're going to do,
there's different URLs that
you access those through.
There's going to be
tilde username site one,
tilde username site two.
And these are all referring
to folders that are installed
in your user sites folder.
Now the configuration for those
specific folders are stored inside of...
This is a normal thing to do
if you've developed on any web
servers and you want to prototype.
You'd use the htaccess files and
you just place those on your servers
with your various options like
turning on server-side includes,
for example,
or turning on PHP inside of plain
HTML files instead of requiring people
to type PHP at the end of their URLs,
which some people might not
be very comfortable with.
So the first thing we're going to go,
this is how you turn on Apache and
how you set it up so it will actually
look at HT access files in your...
[Transcript missing]
Now for site one,
I'm going to show how to turn on
server-side includes for HTML files.
What those are is basically,
they're a special kind of HTML comment,
and you put some contents in there,
and what that'll do is when
the server is vending out the
file to various web browsers,
it'll look on the disk to
find a file by that name,
and it'll replace the comment
with the contents of that file.
A lot of people use this for standard
headers and footers on their websites,
so this is kind of an
interesting option to turn on,
because then you can have standard
headers and footers for all your pages,
of course.
Now in site two,
we're just going to turn on,
we're going to use these commands to turn
PHP processing inside
of plain HTML files.
So now you, instead of having .php at
the end of all your files,
you have .html.
And for some people,
they can't really tell how
you're automating your site then,
because you're just using HTML as
far as the world is concerned.
Behind the scenes, of course,
you can have PHP running,
processing your pages.
So here's a small demo.
I'm going to switch
over to Demo Machine 2.
First of all,
here's the HTTP configuration
file that I'm using.
And inside of there,
I've enabled the PHP commands.
So here's the first line.
And all I did was I took the comment
symbol off the front of that.
And here's the second one.
So searching from the top,
there's the load module statement.
We uncommented that.
And then we uncommented that.
And that's turned on PHP on your system.
And you can use PHP in all your files.
And after that,
you probably don't want to do any more
changes to the HTTP configuration file.
Now, in here,
this is my Apple user configuration file.
And that's located inside of, well,
you can see it up here.
It's etc.
HTTP users, Apple configuration.
And this is the important statement here,
is just allow for HTTP config,
HT access files to be used.
And that governs the access over,
you provide an absolute
path name up here,
the user's Apple sites directory.
So everything in the
Apple sites directory,
now if there's an HT access
file in the folder,
it'll be used to determine the
options for that folder and all
the subfolders of that folder.
So these are standard
Apache configuration things.
So I have site one set up here,
so we can say, local host, local host.
Site 1.
So that's my site with server-side
includes turned on inside of it.
And if we look on the disk here,
As far as zooming in the finder windows,
I could try doing that.
Is there a--oh, hold on, yeah.
Give me a second to do that.
It's on?
Turn on soon.
Thank you.
Okay.
I guess when I'm in front
of people and nervous,
I'm not looking at the
thing in front of my face.
Okay.
So anyway, here's site one,
and here's my HTML file, and of course,
here's my include file.
Now,
inside of there is a control option plus.
Okay.
I guess when I'm in front
of people and nervous,
I'm not looking at the
thing in front of my face.
Okay.
So anyway, here's site one,
and here's my HTML file, and of course,
here's my include file.
Okay.
I guess when I'm in front
of people and nervous,
I'm not looking at the
thing in front of my face.
Okay.
So anyway, here's site one,
and here's my HTML file, and of course,
here's my include file.
Now,
inside of there is a control option plus.
brought up the help for me.
It knew I needed help.
OK.
Now, inside of Site 2,
I'm doing PHP processing
inside of an HTML file.
So if I make this more obvious--
So here's all the content that
you can see inside of this page.
And this is all generated from the PHP.
Those of you familiar
with PHP will be familiar.
This is the PHP information command.
I'll show you the contents
of that file as well,
if I can get back to the finder.
So I'm not actually using the
header include file there.
So here's all the PHP that's
being generated here.
That's the PHP command.
And of course,
This is all the content
that's being generated there.
So that's my little demo.
It's not that exciting.
If you're expecting some
flashy web stuff going on,
then, well, that's not there.
But we'll switch back to the next slide.
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to build this
on the computer here.
So the first thing we bring up,
here's our configuration
file for my Apple user.
And I'm going to add in--
So the first thing we bring up,
here's our configuration
file for my Apple user.
And I'm going to add in--
So the first thing we bring up,
here's our configuration
file for my Apple user.
And I'm going to add in--
And then I'm setting
up a virtual host here.
And the document root is going
to be site three inside of
my sites folder for my user.
And I'm going to log errors and
accesses in these two files here.
So once I save these, I'm going
Then we'll be able to go into--
we need to go into the terminal so
it reads in our new configuration.
And I'm doing the Apache Control graceful
method to restart the server.
And then I can go into--
You can see the site name
that I'm typing in there.
Okay, there's my exciting demo.
But what's going on in the
background here is this is reading
in the configuration for that site.
And I've set up site 3 here,
and that just has a service site include.
And I've done the normal thing here.
Now,
htaccess files are in all these folders,
and we can open those up
inside of the terminal here.
I'll go.
So here's our htaccess file right here.
And there's basically the
commands that I have inside of it.
Service side include, parsing, turned on.
So that's a very simple way to set up
a virtual host inside of your machine.
And that way you can basically
emulate the same functionality as
you have on most websites to install
whatever software you need on those.
Now, for more information about
Apache configuration options,
and stuff,
there's a really good book by O'Reilly.
And there's also the Apache website
here that you can go to.
And I also mentioned Darwin Ports,
because if you're interested
in installing other server
software other than Apache,
you can go there,
and they have a whole bunch of
different servers that you can
install on your machine that are
kind of interesting to play with.
Or if you have special servers
that you're developing for,
then that's a good place to go and get
the server software that you can install.
So in our next session,
I'm just going to go over the different
databases you can install in your system.
And I'm not really going
to do any demos here,
because while databases,
that's even less visually
interesting than my last demos.
So what you can install,
I'm going to go over mySQL 4.02,
PostgreSQL, and Berkeley DB.
And of course,
there's some others that we have
available on the platform as well.
These are the free ones,
but there's other ones like Oracle and
Sybase that you can get as well.
So I'm going to talk about...
MySQL, where you can get it,
there's a really good double-clickable
install system style package that
you can install from their site.
You can go to their mysql.org.
It's a fast, popular database.
It's used in almost every web
server seems to have it these days.
I think a lot of people are using it.
So that's a very popular package
that you might want to look at.
PostgreSQL supports more advanced
SQL queries that you can use.
It's more interesting if you want
to do some advanced programming.
They do have an install on
their website at postgreSQL.org,
but there's also a really easy to
use install on Darwin Ports that
you might want to install instead
because that's all pre-configured
and there's no hassle installing it.
It's very easy to do.
If you do install the Darwin ports,
Darwin ports have variants.
So if you want it to run as a server
on your machine instead of just
installing the libraries and software
that is not launched by default
when you restart your computer,
then you'd want to use the plus
server option that I've shown there
in the Darwin ports install command.
Berkeley Database.
I've seen some people use this with Perl.
Some people do that.
And I've included reference
to their website here.
It's also available as an install
package from Darwin Ports.
And that's why I provided
a reference there.
Now, there's some high-level
SQL tools that we can use.
And...
There's the Cocoa MySQL,
which is really easy to do,
and that's kind of for
looking at MySQL databases.
It's a high-level viewer engine that
lets you do SQL queries and lets you
look at SQL data and that sort of thing.
The second one is MacSQL,
and that's kind of a generic
database product that you can
use for viewing databases,
and you can download
that from Runtime Labs.
What that provides is a UI on one end,
and then you have various drivers
for different databases that hook up,
and then you have a database in
between there that you can use,
and then, of course,
there's your database running
on your other machine.
PHP My Admin is another
tool that runs in PHP,
of course,
and I began this session saying
I wasn't going to do a demo,
but I do have a demo of this,
so I'm just going to give a
quick demo of using PHP My Admin.
So if you go to their website,
and that's what I've done here,
we can download it.
There's a gzip package.
And I'll just download that.
And hopefully it will
appear on my desktop.
So basically the demo here is I'm
just going to download the-- oh.
I'm going to have to cancel this demo.
I'm very sorry.
What happened was originally I had
mySQL installed on this machine,
and I forgot to do that
just before our session.
And it was really neat,
because what I do is
I download PHP MyAdmin,
just drop it into the site,
and then it would work.
But we'll just move on to the next slide,
I'm afraid.
Sorry.
I just got here before,
and I completely forgot
to install that last one.
So anyway,
here's the database software references.
And we have mySQL,
and there are various websites.
And also you might want
to look at Darwin ports,
because if you're using things
like Python or Perl or PHP,
there's a whole bunch of plug-in
modules for various different
database accessing drivers that
you can get from Darwin ports.
Of course,
the Perl ones you can get from CPAN.
We're going to talk about
scripting languages next.
There's a whole bunch that are
installed on Mac OS X by default.
You get PHP, Perl, Python, and Ruby.
There's all the old Unix favorites,
the command line tools and whatnot,
but you don't really use
those for scripting web pages,
but you might use them
building web pages,
of course.
I'm going to start by talking about
PHP because I think that's one of the
most popular ones for web developers.
Of course, you need to turn that on,
and here's the commands that you can use.
I showed how to turn it on before,
but these are basically the two
lines that you uncomment to turn on
PHP for running in your programs.
All you have to do is take out the
sharp symbols at the beginning of
these lines and restart your Apache,
and that'll get it going.
Now, for PHP configuration,
the default configuration, I found,
I didn't really like it.
So these are the two things that
really bothered me about the
default configuration for PHP.
And you can, of course,
go and change those.
We provide all the defaults in a file
that you can make a duplicate of using
the command that I've shown here.
And what you'd want to do, like,
for example, the magic quotes thing,
that kind of caught me by surprise,
because what it does is in the
GPC stands for get post cookies.
And in all the get post cookie data,
it's on by default,
and it puts little backslashes in front
of all your quotes and things like that.
So you might want to turn that off.
The other one,
if you want to upload files larger
than two megabytes or have post data,
which is tied to the upload,
the maximum file size,
greater than two or eight megabytes,
then you might want to
adjust those parameters.
So you'd go in and make a duplicate
copy of the default initialization
value variables for PHP that we provide,
and then go fiddle with the preferences
so they're the way you like them.
Perl is installed, 5.81.
We have Perl 5.81 installed
on Panther right now.
And if you want to upgrade that,
you can go to Darwin Ports,
and of course, you can download that.
That installs in a separate directory,
and it doesn't overwrite
the systems Perl.
That's a good thing.
And you can talk to me after
if you want to know about ways
to go about aligning that.
Of course, once you install Perl and you
have the latest Perl installed,
you can go and use all the CPAN modules
and the DB database accessing modules
and database accessing drivers for
various databases and stuff like that.
Mod Perl is available,
and you can turn it on in the same way
that you can turn on the PHP inside
of the Apache configuration file.
I'm not really going to go over that,
but if you know about Mod Perl,
then you know how to turn it on.
Python is installed.
There's a whole bunch of Python updates
and modules from OpenDarwin.
That's a really good
place to look for that.
Of course, here's the Python website.
I was really impressed by how
many different Python modules were
available on the Darwin port site.
You might want to take a look at that.
It's kind of a neat language.
Ruby,
it's more of an object-oriented version
of scripting languages for people
that like object-oriented programming.
It might be something really worthwhile
for you to investigate if you do
a lot of object-oriented stuff.
And here's their website.
You can upgrade Ruby,
and there's a whole bunch of
Ruby modules for accessing databases
and whatnot on the Darwin Ports website.
So that's the scripting
languages section.
We talked about Darwin Ports,
and that's a really good place to go.
It's one of my favorite sites,
if you haven't noticed.
And there's lots of add-on
scripting modules there.
Other languages you can get.
If you're building your web pages
dynamically or using different
languages to create them,
there's a whole bunch of other
languages you can go get there.
And if you're running C programs
that do image manipulation or
automatic image generation for,
like,
raster titles or something like that,
there's a whole bunch of different
libraries you can get there as well.
So here's some information
about different places you
can go to find information.
There's a lot of different ways
to find information about these
different scripting languages,
of course.
There's the man pages and the
pro doc pages and stuff like that
built into the system as well.
So the last section,
we're going to talk about
server-side Java implementations
available on Mac OS X.
The first section is Java servlets.
For those of you who don't know,
Java servlets are little Java programs
that run inside of Apache.
You can actually run them as a
server inside of Apache as well.
We're going to show you some of
the tools that we have available on
Mac OS X for developing servlets.
You can develop them inside of Xcode.
We have Ted Jucevic here to
give us a demo of what they are
and let you see how they work.
I'm not sure if they can hear you.
I assume that people can hear me.
So let's actually go to, I guess, yeah,
that's the right machine.
So the only thing I've really done for
this machine is I've downloaded and
installed the application server preview.
You can get that from connect.apple.com.
It says it's a preview,
but it actually has final
candidate implementations,
releases of JBoss, Tomcat, Ant, xDoclet.
It also includes templates
for Xcode for doing,
let's see, servlets,
enterprise Java beans,
and enterprise applications.
Now, what I'm going to show you here,
I've actually got the
server up and running.
Where is that mouse thing?
There it is.
Don't worry about the text.
I don't need to zoom it in.
But this is just the log file.
This is the file that comes
that when you start up JBoss,
this is what it generates.
The only thing I've done
is after you install it,
you can actually start it up by
going into CDing into library,
JBoss, 3.2, bin,
and then there's a run.sh
script that you can run,
and then you're up and running with it.
So the next step is let's go
and actually launch Xcode.
Now servlets, yes,
it's Java and stuff like that,
but it's not complicated.
Even if you really don't know Java,
to do a very simple servlet is very easy.
One of the key things is
even though I'm doing the
development for this on Mac OS X,
you can deploy this to any
other server that does servlets,
any other server that has Tomcat
or the JBoss with the Tomcat,
Windows, Linux, Solaris, of course,
XServe.
And so I'll just put this in my
home and let's call it helloWODCSF.
So it creates a project.
This is actually an AMP build
script that it uses.
So if you want to-- say you're working
on this project with other people
and they're using some other tool,
say like NetBeans
[Transcript missing]
Let's see, that's the title,
and then this is the content.
The template comes up with Hello World.
And let me see if I can zoom
in on this a little bit.
Let me get the text.
Let me set it to, let's see, like 18.
There we go.
So let's go down to here.
And the do get, this is when you send a
get command to the server.
This is where it comes in.
It actually sends in the request.
[Transcript missing]
And let's go ahead and do the build.
Now, one thing about this AMP project
is it actually does both the
build and then also installs it.
So you notice that the terminal
over there just kind of kicked up.
What that was is the AMP build actually
copied it into the directory for you.
So you notice that the terminal
over there just kind of kicked up.
What that was is the AMP build actually
copied it into the directory for you.
You could always go to another machine,
but you're on that machine.
And actually, I changed it a little bit
from what I had before.
So the first part of the URL is
actually the name of the project,
sf.
And then the second half of the URL,
the server hello world,
actually comes from inside the sources.
There's the xdoclet comment right here,
the server hello world.
[Transcript missing]
With any luck, I should get low WWDC.
So, of course,
your servlets would be much more
dynamic and stuff like that.
But, you know,
the entry level for servlets
is very low on Mac OS X,
and it makes it very easy to develop
and then deploy to any other platform.
So thank you very much.
So, of course,
your servlets would be much more
dynamic and stuff like that.
But, you know,
the entry level for servlets
is very low on Mac OS X,
So, of course,
your servlets would be much more
dynamic and stuff like that.
But, you know,
the entry level for servlets
is very low on Mac OS X,
and it makes it very easy to develop
and then deploy to any other platform.
So thank you very much.
And that's kind of interesting in itself.
Now, to do that, I have Daryl Lee,
who is a senior engineer from
the WebObjects team who's come
to give us a talk and give us a
demonstration of how to do that.
So here's Daryl.
All right.
Thank you, John.
So how many people out there
know what WebObjects is or
have heard of WebObjects?
Great.
How many have worked with
J2E technologies before,
EJB, servlets, et cetera, et cetera?
Okay.
Great.
So what I'm going to tell you about
is how WebObjects and J2E kind
of integrate well together.
So what is WebObjects?
It's a Java application
server that Apple builds.
It's a development and
deployment environment.
So we think it's probably one
of the best ways to build large
enterprise-level applications that
have a lot of enterprise needs.
And some of the vertical customers or
solutions that people have deployed have
been for online banking institutions,
travel agencies, e-learning solutions.
We use it for our iTunes Music Store,
our .Mac services,
our online Apple Store also.
So there are many other
solutions that are out there,
but that just gives you an idea
of what people have done with it.
So at its core, what is WebObjects about?
I think the power of WebObjects
is in our core frameworks.
And we have frameworks,
if you've heard of EOF,
that allow you to model the data,
in your database, or other data sources,
and connect to that easily,
and map that to your application.
Then we have a bunch of frameworks
that allow you to publish your data,
either to HTML,
or maybe a desktop application,
a Java desktop application,
or maybe build a web service.
On top of those frameworks,
we have a bunch of tools and assistance
that help you configure your UI and
build your applications rapidly.
So if you're familiar with WebObjects,
a lot of people have done what
we call a .woa deployment,
or the application bundles
are bundled in .woas.
We also have a different option
for deploying in J2E containers,
and that's the .war bundle.
And .war bundles or web archives
are a J2E-specified way of
deploying an application bundle
to any J2E-compliant server.
So if you have something like JBoss,
you can take a .war bundle
and deploy it into that,
and also take that same .war bundle and
deploy into WebSphere or WebLogic or
whatever J2E container that you'd like.
So let's dig a little deeper into
the functionality within WebObjects.
So the first thing you want to do is
get some connectivity to your data.
The standard way in
Java is to go through JDBC,
the JDBC interfaces.
So if somebody writes a JDBC driver,
then we can connect to
that kind of data source.
So today we've talked
about mySQL or Postgre.
There are JDBC drivers for that.
There are a lot of commercial
drivers for like Oracle,
Sybase, and you name it.
So if you're connecting
to relational databases,
we can support that.
And in the same token,
if you're connecting
to directory services,
Java has a standard interface for that.
So the JNDI interface is the way to go.
And things like... Open LDAP and iPlanet,
we can support that kind of
connectivity as long as they
have a JConnector for that.
So when you're trying to map
your data from your database,
we do this thing called
object relational mapping.
So we're mapping the actual tables and
rows in your database to actual objects
so that your app can access that.
And we have an EOModeler tool
that I'll show you a little bit
later and how to use that tool.
So the next thing after you've kind
of modeled your data is... You'd
want to figure out what mediums or
where you'd want to publish that to.
When you hear the name WebObject,
you think, "Oh, okay,
so that's a web client." So we
obviously vend HTML as one option.
But some other things I want
to make you aware of is that if
you want a richer experience,
we also help you build
Java clients for the desktop.
These are kind of
three-tiered applications.
So they would be a Java client,
which would talk to a WebObject server.
Which would then talk to your database.
And then we also support web services.
So web services are a very
popular buzzword lately.
And so if you hear Microsoft is
pushing .NET services,
and basically they're just
sending out soap structures,
if people are familiar with soap.
So web services kind of encompass SOAP,
XMLRPC, and WSDL.
I'm not going to go
into all those acronyms.
But... We have assistance that allow
you to take your data with your
model data and actually configure a
service so that you can interconnect
with other computers or applications
that can talk web services also.
So after we've done that...
I want to just tell you about
our rapid development tools.
And these assistants really allow
you to rapidly prototype your
applications within minutes.
So later in a demo, I'm going to show you
that within five minutes,
I can build an application without
writing even a drop of code,
and customize the UI,
and get it up and running.
So it's definitely a powerful tool
to use in our WebRx distribution.
So getting started,
what do I need to get on
my disk to download on my
laptop today and get running?
Well, first you're going to want to
pick a nice IDE to work in.
We're Apple,
so we encourage you to use Xcode.
It's a great environment for
building Java applications
and WebObjects applications.
So definitely check that out.
If you are more partial to
an open source solution,
grab Eclipse and download that.
And then we have a couple
of open source projects that
support WebObjects development.
So if you have heard of
WoeLips and WoeProject,
if you download those and install them,
then you can use Eclipse to
build WebObjects applications.
The next thing you want to do if
you don't have WebObjects on your
disk is to go to our website,
www.apple.com/webobjects,
and download a free trial
version of WebObjects.
It's their full feature
development tools there.
The only thing you need is
a 30-day free trial license.
So that'll get you up and running,
and you can play with
everything that we've got.
So if you're interested in the
.war bundling that I was talking
about and deploying that way,
I would suggest that you download
the application server update or
preview that Ted was demoing earlier,
and that has Tomcat and JBoss.
So those are all pre-configured
to run on Mac OS X,
so it saves you from downloading the
binaries from JBoss.org or Tomcat.org
and getting all that installed
correctly and configured correctly.
Okay, so without,
I would like to jump into a demo,
and if we can go to laptop,
laptop over here.
Okay, so this is kind of like the end
product of what I'm going to show you.
And what you can see is that
this is a very full-featured app.
I can add records over here.
I can edit records.
I can delete them, and I can sort them.
And hopefully my session
hasn't timed out yet,
so it's still interactive.
So this is what we're going to try
to get to by the end of my demo.
One other thing I want
to point out to you,
just because it looks cooler,
is a more fuller model that I've built.
and Michael Eumodler.
OK, there we go.
So let's resize that.
[Transcript missing]
So I want to build a
simpler model for you.
One other thing I'll point out is that
you also can see the relationships
between the various tables,
the foreign keys and the primary keys,
and how they relate with each other.
Okay, so let's build a simpler model and
reverse engineer this from our database.
And the first thing we want to do is I'm
going to connect to a JDBC data source.
connect to it with a JDBC connection URL.
Hopefully that pasted in correctly.
The next thing it's going to do is
ask me all kinds of questions about do
I want to be queried about relationships
or stored procedures or other things.
And we'll just take some very
simple options and say we're
going to ask about primary keys.
The next thing it's asking me is, okay,
what tables do I want to work with?
And I just,
for the simplicity of this demo,
I just want to pick one table,
and I'll pick listing address.
Let's finish.
So here is our model,
and it's really simple,
and like I pointed out to you before,
here's our table, and there are columns.
And one other thing I'll
just point out to you,
say I want to change something or if
I was just modeling this on my own
and I didn't have any database or any
of the tables set up in the database,
we can generate the SQL for
actually creating those tables
and those relationships,
the primary keys,
the foreign key bindings,
and stuff like that.
And you can execute that script
or save it off as a script.
OK, so let's just save that model.
Let's put that on our desktop.
Okay, so what I'd like to show you
next is how in Xcode we'd
build a direct web application.
And what that does is allow me to
rapidly prototype a web application.
And as you can see,
we have a bunch of other
templates for web objects.
So if you're building a
Java client or if you're building
a web service application,
and there are variations thereof.
But I'm going to do a
web application today.
Let's just call this test
and put it on the desktop.
So we want to eventually
deploy this as a WAR bundle,
so I'm going to select that option.
This is a standalone one where it
beds all the jars and necessary
resources that we'll need.
And this is where we'd put
our little trial license in.
If I wanted to add web services support,
either vending web services
or consuming web services,
I would select these options.
And what this is asking me for is
whether I want to use JDBC type of
access or if I need JNDI types of access.
And I will take just the standard
frameworks that's added there,
and let me just add our
little listing model.
Now, what this pane is asking me is, OK,
what kind of default template look
that I want to start off with?
I'm not forced to stick with this,
but I will be configuring
this a little bit later.
So let's just go with a neutral look
and then build and run our project.
So there's not a real lot of
Java code in this project.
As you can see,
there's like three Java files,
and there are a few components in here,
and then there's our model file
that we were just talking about.
This will launch and pull
up my web browser here.
And this is my application
without any configuration.
And as you can see,
it's fully functional out of the box.
So if I wanted to query on it,
there's no problems.
I can sort right away.
and I can add and do other kinds
of operations on the table.
So as you can notice,
some of it's not so pretty.
I don't like this apartment number
string that it's previewing for me here.
And I don't particularly like
how it's presenting the zip code
string or something like that.
So I'm going to show you how you
can customize this without even
having to recompile your code.
And what I would do is I would
select the assistant and log in.
[Transcript missing]
So, okay, here's our assistant.
Hopefully that's large
enough for everybody to see,
but...
What I want to do is I want to change
this apartment num attribute name to
something that's more displayable.
And I'll just call this apartment.
[Transcript missing]
I can do the same thing.
Let's do it for zip code again.
And let's just call this postal code.
And we can update that, and boom,
it immediately updates.
So we can save our changes.
And let me just show you how
the deployment in JBoss works.
Okay, so we want to go to Xcode.
And let me just point out one
thing in our targets over here.
And let's select that.
Now I can tell Xcode where to
drop my WAR bundle by configuring
this one property here,
which is the servlet_webapps directory.
And it's telling it to put into the JBoss
deployment directory in /JBoss3.2 deploy.
So I just wanted to
point that out to you.
If you had installed your application
server in a different location,
that would be good to know.
Okay,
so let's build our and deploy our server.
Once it finishes building,
it will automatically put it
into the /library/jboss folder.
And while it's building and stuff,
I'll just show you one other thing,
a way you can tell that the JBoss
server is up without having to look at
your terminal or something like that.
If you go to localhost 8080 on
the 8080 port and you hit that,
you'll get this welcoming page.
So it's a quick way that I use all the
time just to check if my server's up.
So let's try connecting
to our application.
I'm pretty sure it's deployed.
Let's just try.
So it's at tests, web objects,
[Transcript missing]
- So thank you very much, Daryl.
Here's some reference materials for
doing server-side Java applications.
Now, okay, I'm going to sum up,
and what we've talked about today
is basically doing all your web
development locally on your computer.
Like, for example,
you're all carrying around laptops,
so let's say you wanted
to do website development,
testing,
prototyping on your laptop without
being connected to the Internet.
This is what we've been
talking about today.
We talked about server software
and how to set up Apache so you
can do local serving off of pages,
and so you can emulate all the
server-side options that you'd have
on a regular server on the Internet,
such as server-side includes
doing PHP and virtual hosting.
We talked about databases,
where you can go to get
them to install them,
where you can find them on the web,
some installation options for Postgre,
for example,
and where you can get modules to access
them from various scripting languages.
And we talked about some
scripting languages that are
pre-installed on Mac OS X,
and how you can turn on PHP,
and that sort of thing.
We also had two demonstrations
of different options for doing
server-side Java on Mac OS X.
And these were all running
locally on a local machine,
so you can do your development, testing,
prototyping, all on the same machine.
And, of course, we had servlets,
which are the simple ones,
and we had J2E application
development with WebObjects,
which, of course, as you noticed,
that was our flashy graphics demo.
So, now, in the end,
here's the reference library information.
We have a connect.apple.com DMG that you
can download at the end of the day today.
And, of course,
Dorm and Ports is a good place
to go look for information and
downloads for software that you
can install to do web development
and prototyping on your machine.